#### Single File Objective
A primary objective in the evolution to BX was to produce a single file executable program. This presented several challenges. SX was designed primarily as an individual C++ program for each command. Additionally 14 commands were implemented in Python, as was the help system. Finally the appearance of a single program called SX was achieved by dispatching through a Python program. The single file requirement meant elimination of Python and the integration of the individual programs into one C++ program, with integrated help and dispatch.

#### Extensibility Model
With approximately 80 commands, BX requires an extensibility model that eliminates redundant code across commands. Ad-hoc evolution without such a model led to significant maintenance difficulty and increasing fragility. In keeping with the single file requirement the extensions had to be incorporated at compile time.

As such code generation is now used to produce headers, AutoMake files, MSVC project files, component tests, and shared source code from a single [XML metadata document](https://github.com/libbitcoin/libbitcoin-explorer/blob/version2/model/generate.xml). The [open source tool GSL](https://github.com/imatix/gsl) is used to push command metadata through a [GSL template](https://github.com/libbitcoin/libbitcoin-explorer/blob/version2/model/generate.gsl), producing the necessary artefacts. To implement a new command required creating an XML element, running the code generator, and overriding a single invoke method. A stub for unit/component test execution is automatically defined as well.

#### Localization Model
A command line tool with interactive help and a global audience requires a model for content localization. As BX is text-based this is strictly a text conversion problem. Previously literal output and error message text was mixed with non-localizable content and interspersed throughout complex manual serialization and screen layout steps. Help text was similarly integrated into the Python dispatch code. Localization of presentation was impossible in this model.

In keeping with the single file requirement, and given the extensibility model, all localizable text was moved to the command metadata file. The remaining application level localizable content was also relocated to metadata. Within the metadata only a limited set of attributes are localizable. These can be replaced with localized messages, producing a fully-localized build. There is a small amount of work remaining to coordinate this process across a large set of languages and to allow a single build to be localized across all supported languages.